Recording and transcription. Beautiful.
Very good. All right.
So as people trundle in,
let me kick us off and just talk us
through why we are here today.
First of all, welcome everyone.
It's lovely,
lovely to see everyone and I want to
celebrate the Shade success of the.
South African Azure User Group.
This picture was taken just a few minutes
before we started this.
We have 2209 members in the South African
Azure User Group.
Obviously not everyone's here on today's
call,
otherwise it would be rowdier than it is.
With Matthew and I talking, however,
the South African Azure User Group is
part of the Azure Tech groups.
We are one of 152 groups globally sharing
user group goodness between all of us.
So what are we doing today?
This is week 44 of 2025,
and that puts into perspective how few
shopping weeks you have left until
Christmas.
If that didn't give you some panic,
welcome to the call.
Today in Azure Lunch and Learn,
we are going to be.
Talking about VS Code for IT Admins,
exploring and managing Azure without
being a developer with Matthew Levy.
In the rest of the week we have a program
for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.
Tuesday is equally delicious Data Deep
Dive,
selecting the right Azure data
architecture.
It is not database architecture,
but data architecture.
Little bit of a preview in terms of the
goodness coming away. On Wednesday, Shaun,
who is on the call,
will be presenting Intrasuite, The Good,
the Bad and the Ugly.
Shaun Hardnick is also known as that.
Lazy admin,
and because he is so exceptionally clever
4.
and lazy,
he likes to automate everything in his
life.
Thursday special treat with Warren Dutoy,
Azure Networking,
choosing the right connectivity
architecture for your cloud.
I want to call out the meetup group.
However, if you are in this call,
you do know where you are.
Which is meetupcom, Azureusergrou,
South Africa.
I want to call out our code of conduct.
In a nutshell,
it means everyone is welcome,
no one is allowed to be picked on,
and if you do,
you will no longer be part of the user
group.
We choose to include everyone of every
type, orientation, flavor,
or anything else that we can use as a
descriptor because we love every.
Everybody equally,
except anyone who's rude to anybody else.
I'd like to introduce Matthew.
So Matthew is a solutions architect at
Threadscape,
and I was going to read out the whole
with over eight years in IT consulting.
Let me just say that Matthew is one of
the cleverest people that I know.
He's been an MVP for security for a while.
He's really,
really good at solving problems.
And doing that in a way that's repeatable.
And since he embraced VS Code,
I watched what Matthew did over time and
how he kept on solving problems and again
in a repeatable manner. So I'm really,
really delighted to introduce today's
session with Matthew.
Matthew VS Code for IT admins exploring
and managing Azure without being a
developer. And with that Matthew,
I hand you the con.
Why, thank you, Nicolas.
That was a brilliant introduction.
I I couldn't have done any better.
Actually, that was.
I'm glad it's recorded.
I'm going to have to go and steal that
Asia.
introduction. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. So.
I I don't know how repeatable all of this
stuff is going to be because it's a lot
of it is in my head,
so I don't have any slides to share.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
kind of go through the basics of what
I've got from VS Code and.
Then just show you some of the things
that I use VS Code for in a day-to-day
Azure kind of assessment.
But before I get started,
maybe if you can use the show of hands.
Nick,
you're jumping the gun there and putting
up your hand. Yes, Nick, go ahead.
I was going to ask you, Matthew,
because I didn't in the beginning,
and I apologize for that.
How interactive do you want this to be?
Do you?
Are you happy for folks to come off mute
and scream questions at you?
How do you want to do that?
Oh.
Yeah, so it's lunch and learn, right?
So we're going to learn together.
So if anyone has got something that they
want to say and point out that I'm doing
something wrong or could be doing
something better,
I also want to learn from this session.
So please come off mute and if you've got
questions, come off mute.
I don't know that I'll necessarily.
Actually,
I should be able to see the chat because
I'm not sharing a a slide deck.
All I'm going to be sharing is my screen
with VS Code and that's it.
So yeah, please,
I'll I probably won't be able to answer
in chat while I'm talking cause I'm I'm
pretty bad at multitasking,
but sure we can pause and look at the
chat and try and answer things.
So what I was,
I see Nick is ferociously chatting.
Is that just to make sure that it's
working? OK, cool.
Indeed,
and I'll help you with that chat as well.
If there's a question,
I'll stop you in your tracks.
OK,
So what I was going to ask is by show of
hands,
how many people here work with Azure on a
day-to-day?
Yay, I see 4/5.
6.
Thank you. All right,
so so far I'm seeing a number of people
and you can put your hands down again.
How many of you people are slow to put
your hands up, Jaco?
Very good. Thank you. No.
How many of you are?
Develoers.
So you write code for a living. Aha. OK,
so there's three people. So unfortunately,
this session's not for you because you'll
probably have so many things that you'll
want to correct me on.
And how many of you are administered?
Administrators within environment.
So and I know that develoers are
administrators but like as.
Your kind of daily describes you have to
administrate administer Azure
environments.
Not so many of you.
OK, cool.
And then I I guess final question is how
many of you have got some experience with
Visual Studio code?
Or another IDE. Oh, yay. Wow.
Look at that. We can stop this now.
Stop this session. Let's go.
Let's go and have some lunch. No, no,
that's brilliant.
So there's a lot of people that have that
Don't be scared.
use VS code.
No, but that's brilliant.
That just shows how sort of approachable
it is, how easy it is to use it. You know,
you just it's it's open source, it's free,
you download it,
you install it and off you go and.
One of the things I experienced recently
because my machine is pretty hardened and
locked down.
Even though I don't have admin
permissions,
I can still install VS Code and I could
still install Git and do everything that
I need to do.
I don't need to be a local admin on the.
Machine. So that's great.
From a security perspective,
I'm really hay about that, OK?
So I'm going to show you some of the
things.
I've got five or six things that I just
want to show you,
and then it's more of a learning session
for all of us,
so we can explore and try a couple of
things.
Maybe they'll work,
maybe they won't work because I'm going
to lean on some of the GitHub copilot
functionality and we'll see how what we
can do. Just before I share my screen,
I do in my current role I do.
A number of Azure assessments where I'm
assessing other customers,
Azure environments, assessing them.
According to the Cloud Adoption framework
or the well architected framework.
So you know,
making sure that things align with Cloud
Adoption Framework for Azure.
And so you'll see a number of the things
that I'll show on screen that PowerShell,
that's the other thing I didn't.
Mention on being an IT admin,
I use PowerShell a lot,
so I don't know any other languages.
I meant to get skilled up on Python,
but I just haven't gotten around to it.
So PowerShell is my.
Scripting language of choice.
So you'll see a bunch of PowerShell.
It's stuff that I actually use and some
of it I created myself,
some of it it's borrowed from other
people,
and some of it's stuff that I've had
generated.
Um.
OK, so I'm going to share my screen.
OK, so.
The first thing I want to show you,
this is just a sort of a default VS code
and you can see that it's it's opened the
getting started welcome page.
Sometimes I like to go back to this and
run some of the things,
but you can close it often and say never
show this thing again, but.
What I've got in this profile.
Is I've got some extensions installed and
what's useful from an Azure perspective,
especially when it comes to evaluating
and assessing and seeing what's in
somebody's tenant,
is all these Azure extensions.
We know VS Code is quite extendable.
With all extensions,
I typically go for trusted publishers of
extensions,
so Microsoft being one of them.
And there's also something called
extension packs, which you'll see here,
this Azure Virtual. Sorry,
not Azure Virtual.
Azure Tools is an extension pack,
so if I click on it,
it actually has 12 extensions all within
the one pack,
so I've only had to install the Azure
Tools extension pack and then it comes
with all these other.
Extensions. Now,
I don't use all of these extensions,
but they're useful in various situations.
I go away there's there's or actually
it's better on the left hand side to show
you.
So Azure Resources is quite handy because
that'll you know,
be able to show me in a tree view the
resources that I have.
But it's limited to specific types of
Azure resources.
The Azure Storage extension allows me to
see Azure Storage accounts and connect to
them, explore Azure Storage.
I've got Azure Virtual Machines because.
I often have virtual virtual machines in
environments and then we've got GitHub
Copilot for Azure.
Now that if you go into the Azure portal,
you've probably seen the GitHub Copilot
for Azure.
Or a copilot for Azure.
It's the same copilot essentially,
it's just surfaced in VS Code through the
GitHub connection.
So there's some kind of samples of what's
going on there,
and then obviously I've got the GitHub
Copilot extensions so that I can do some
of the GitHub code generation.
Using GitHub Copilot and incidentally I
use different models,
don't necessarily use the GPT models that
are provided.
I sometimes switch to things like Claude,
so I'll show you that.
And obviously PowerShell.
I've got the PowerShell extension so it
knows that I'm I'm writing PowerShell
commandlets and so the formatting and I
can run them within the terminal and
Rainbow CSV is something I came across
recently that.
If you create CSV files and you open them
within VS Code,
it actually highlights them with some
nice color.
Line, you know,
it lines up the columns with colour and
so it's easy to identify what goes what.
So I mean that's useful for any CSV,
it's not just Azure, right?
And then you'll see I've got the
Microsoft Docs MCP installed.
So that's a an MC model context protocol
server that's installed,
but it's just for Microsoft Docs,
so it makes a call to the Microsoft Docs.
MCP API.
So um.
It's useful to have these extensions
installed.
Obviously the other things that I that I
do and I have,
I've intentionally made my VS code as
bare bones as possible for this
demonstration.
On the accounts section,
so if I click on bottom left accounts,
I can sign into GitHub to use Copilot.
So I typically do that.
So I'll click on that and that'll bring
up my on my other window it's bringing up.
A browser with me signed in to GitHub.
It's useful to have a GitHub account.
You don't. To use GitHub Copilot,
you need to have a GitHub account,
so you'd have to have that.
So I sign in and that should bring me
back to VS Code signed in.
And now you can see I'm signed in to
GitHub.
The other thing that you can do,
and it's not necessary for what I do,
but it's it's useful if you're going to
use some of these extensions,
is to actually sign in to Azure.
So if I go to Azure,
I'm not signed in at the moment,
so I'm going to.
Allow Azure resources to sign in.
That's going to OUA prompt and I'll
choose another account.
So.
Bear with me while I sign in Tye that
long assword.
Now I don't want my organization to
manage my entire machine,
I just want Vscode to be.
Signed in. OK,
so now it's signing into Azure and so I
can see subscriptions and I can expand on
the subscriptions and see the resources
that this extension supports.
Azure resources extension supports.
Things like storage accounts and virtual
machines and.
Whatever kinds of resources you have.
Um.
With the GitHub sign in,
I can also connect to GitHub repos or any
source control repos for that matter.
So if I go to the source control button.
I can clone a repo.
And at the top it's allowing me to enter
a URL or clone from GitHub.
Because I'm signed in to GitHub,
I can click on this remote sources and
then it should see.
The Um.
The repos that I have in my account so I
can if I've got some stuff and often I do,
I've got PowerShell scripts and things in
my GitHub repo.
Then I can go and use those,
pull those down.
Tink them to my machine and this is where
I would need the git extension so or the
git interpolation and that's let me just
do git.
So you just Google git and install the
latest version 2 point something and if
you don't have it installed it'll tell
you. So VS code is very cool like that.
With a lot of this stuff you'll see
bottom right hand corner a little pop up
telling you you need to sign in or you
need this extension or you need to
install git command line so that you can
use git commands.
Within VS code,
so it actually walks you through that
process.
I I don't think it's necessary for me to
go through it because I've already done
it on my machine.
Um.
So it's busy trying to sign me into
GitHub. I don't know.
That's to show resources. Uh,
remote repositories.
Let me just move this out the way.
Don't know why it's taking so long. I can,
like I said, any yes.
Matt,
we're only seeing the Rainbow CSV stuff
on your screen.
I'm not sure if there's anything else
Yeah, no, no, no.
I'm sharing my entire screen.
still happening.
So what was happening was it was down the
bottom right hand corner of VS code.
Mm.
Hopefully you could see that it was
trying to authenticate to GitHub, which,
Yes.
oh, it popped up on another screen,
that's why.
For me to authorize that not finished.
Would you like to try a different way?
Let's just say no.
And so um.
Try that again. Sorry.
That's why it took so long.
There we go.
So now it's listing my the repos that are
in my GitHub. OK, so I could choose that.
Or what I've done many times is use
somebody else's repos just.
Just because they've got useful content
in them. One of them that I like to well,
no one that I cloned recently is the
Maester repo from Merrill Fernando.
Yeah.
So you just basically paste the URL from
that repo into the clone repo and click
clone from and then it creates a clone.
It asks you where you want to store it
locally, so.
You choose a folder locally,
locally on the machine,
and then it'll store it wherever you've
said, and so I've actually got the master.
Repo already cloned on my machine,
so I'm not going to clone it again.
You can see if you clone something twice
it'll like this Intune management folder.
I cloned it and then cloned it again.
That was me being silly actually because.
I wanted to use the dev branch of this
Intune management repo and I didn't want
to mess with the branch that I had on my
machine,
so I created a separate one only to
realize later on that.
Once you've cloned the repo,
you can switch to the branch from within
VS code,
but that's that's actually something I
can show you towards the end if we get
enough time.
So I'm not going to clone that repo at
this stage. I just want to show.
Let's have a look at these VMS.
These VMS are deallocated.
I can actually perform actions on these
VMS from within here, so the.
Perform actions on resources without ever
having to go to portal. So you know,
I've intentionally got these VMS
deallocated so I can go ahead and start
the VM if I wanted to.
Not that I'm going to do anything with it
right now, but just.
To show you,
you can do things with Azure resources
from within, yeah.
Um.
What I'm going to show you now is the and
and this is a a feature of VS Code.
It's not necessarily an Azure function or
magic. That is the profiles, right?
And so I've got a number of profiles down
here on the bottom left.
And I'm actually going to switch to the
default profile and you'll see now that
I've got a number of other extensions
that are part of my default VS code
installation,
so there's some additional extensions.
And with profiles you can customize how
it looks, what extensions show up,
which folders work with that profile,
et cetera, et cetera.
And so one of the cool things I wanted to
show you is if I.
I'm in the default profile,
but I open a folder that I always use for
Azure assessments.
It changes automatically to that profile
because of the folder.
So if I go file open folder.
And.
Go here.
Oops.
And open this folder.
It automatically changed to that profile,
so it's now live mode again and it's got
those extensions that I need for the
Azure assessment that I'm going to do.
And you can see down the bottom right
it's kind of prompting me my PowerShell
version is out of date,
so I could install the latest version of
7.5.4. I know 7.5.
3 is OK and I can carry on using it,
but if I've got some time I could go
ahead and.
Update the PowerShell version.
I'm not gonna do that now on this call
because you know,
demo gods will probably not favor me and
something will happen. Oh.
Tashman is asking if I can zoom in.
I haven't figured out how to do that with
VS code to be honest.
If anyone knows how to zoom VS code.
That would be useful.
You.
Appearance. Uh, full screen. Uh, zoom.
There we go.
Huh.
We did it.
I get there now.
I think on Windows you can also do.
Control control Lus equals control Lus
minus.
Yeah, yeah.
Control and equals.
I was doing control zoom with the mouse,
so maybe that's why I was.
Look at that. Is that better?
Better for me, it's age appropriate.
Yeah, OK,
so should I start again now that everyone
can see?
Start everything from scratch, please.
Yeah, OK, so.
So what I showed you there was that
profiles and and just going into the
profiles you can edit what folders open
with that profile.
So let me just because my terminal is
taking up a lot of space here.
You'll see that the folder that I'm in is
part of this Azure assessment profiles,
but I could remove it and then it's not
going to open this profile when I open
that folder and then you can see I've got
it.
A number of other folders that will open
this type of profile.
Some other cool profiles that I've got
are Doc Rioter which does a lot of so
it's it's got markdown editors in it and.
Style checkers and editing tools so you
can actually use this as a a replacement
for writing documentation.
So you don't necessarily need to use Word,
which I often fight with.
Another cool profile is the ISE mode.
So if you are an admin that's used to
PowerShell and using ISE,
the ISE mode just it switches the color
scheme and makes it look a lot more like
ISE than VS Code.
Is pretty cool and I'm just I've got some
other things that I'm playing around with.
So let me just show you some of the
PowerShell stuff that I do and and
obviously connecting to Azure to run
PowerShell needs.
Um, the AZ PowerShell commandlets. Um, so.
I make sure that I've got the the AC
module installed.
So that's something that if you try and
run some of the commands,
you'll see that they won't work because
you don't have the module.
So you just basically install the module.
I'm going to connect to my tenant here.
It's just so what I'm doing is
highlighting and then pressing.
F8 and that runs down the bottom in the
terminal. I'll make it bigger, yes.
Sorry Matt,
is that your PowerShell or is the
assessment PowerShell that you are
looking at part of an external repo that
folks can come follow along with?
Hm.
This is mine.
So this is something that I've got
internally in a a repo because it's just
a number of PowerShell things that I've
put together in an in a one long file,
but I'm, you know, there's nothing.
Secret in it, but I can't really share it.
It's not really useful to anyone,
Sure, sure.
so let me just authenticate here and
you'll see now I'm connected to an.
A tenant and there's a subscription.
This function that I've got here is just
something that a colleague of mine wrote
just to convert some things to markdown
because we.
We provide reports with markdown and so
I'm just going to run that function.
Because you'll see some of the other
commands that are run.
Where is it later on?
Convert to Markdown.
So I call that function and then I can
paste what's on the clipboard into a
brand new Markdown file.
It just makes it easier for reading in
Markdown. So things that I can do is.
Just run a couple of commands to go and
interrogate the tenant about the
subscriptions.
And what do we get back? Did we get any?
Let's see subscriptions. Yeah,
there's one subscription and things that.
So I mean,
I'm not going to go through all of the
things that I run here.
It's up to you if you've got things in
Azure that you want to specifically ask
about. You know,
there's the Azure commandlets,
the easy commandlets, and then I also,
because I'm an identity person,
I do a lot of stuff on Entra.
Which means I need to connect to graph.
So I have the graph PowerShell modules
and I would do a connect MG graph if I
need to do any sort of intra types of
things.
Interrogate,
ask for users in groups and things like
that. OI can do that.
Some of this PowerShell script I've
borrowed or I've written and I've just
added to it.
Some of it I used the Copilot,
the GitHub Copilot magic,
which because I'm now signed into GitHub,
I have.
The copilot and in fact this thing has
oed out on the right hand side,
so I can use this now to.
Do a number of things,
and with the GitHub copilot you you've
got the different modes you can ask,
and that's very similar to like the
ChatGPT functionality where you're just
having a conversation with.
Copilot and it's suggesting things and
then you still need to go and copy the
code and paste it in your your script or
you know, run sections of it yourself.
The other mode is the ask mode. Sorry,
the agent mode.
I'm getting confused there the agent mode
which will actually.
Execute the command so you can say I.
In fact, let's let's try this.
I don't care about the the context, so.
I need a list of virtual machines in.
This tenant.
Use PowerShell to get the information.
Let's see what it does.
I'm using Claude because I found that it
has.
I just find better code comes out of
Claude than the GitHub,
the the ChatGPT models,
but it's really it's you're up to your
preference.
Try them and I think it's also dependent
on what.
GitHub license.
You have the ability to change models.
O I'm going to enable that and let's see.
What?
I'll help you get a list of virtual
machines in the tenant using PowerShell
based on your existing script pattern.
I'll add a section. OK,
so it's going to add a section to my
script.
Virtual machines retrieve all virtual
machines,
loop through all enabled subscriptions,
get VM details, display the results. Cool.
And it's added it to that PowerShell
assessment copy dot PS1.
You can see it's highlighted it there and
now it hasn't actually run it,
but I can keep all of that and let's see
what it does.
It's very big and zoomy for me,
so let's just.
Maybe I can zoom out just a tad.
So VMS for each sub in subs for each VM
and like as an administrator who knows
PowerShell, I'm going to kind of.
Cast my eye over it to see if it makes
sense, but I don't have to.
I could just run it and see what happens.
Then yeah, let's get up to there.
So format table, so if 8.
So it's looping through the subscriptions
and then it's giving me the two virtual
machines that I have listed and it's
giving me some useful information,
the subscription, the resource.
Now what I could do because I've got that
convert to markdown table.
Now I've got a table there that
PowerShell has outputted for me and
actually.
GitHub Copilot knew that I used that
function and added it so you can see it
to actually put that convert to markdown
table. I didn't even see that,
so that's brilliant.
Let's run that and copy it to the
clipboard.
So that's done.
So what I can do is then go file new file
and select.
It's a markdown file and just paste
what's on my clipboard.
So now that's a markdown file if I
preview this.
Open preview. Oh look, it's nice.
I can put that in a nice and I can add,
you know, different text to it.
So it's it's a nice little output in a
table.
Which is pretty cool.
And then if I were connected to,
I'm not right now. If I go to, yeah,
source control,
I'm not connected to source control,
but because I've updated that assessment
copy file, I could actually.
Oh,
I like that change where it's gone and
got the resources or the virtual machines.
I can now save that and stage it to my
local repo and then I can sync it which
will push it up using the git.
Tool to the source, the remote repository,
so my colleagues can then just pull
assessment copy and they'll have an
updated version with oh,
it's got stuff that'll get the VMS in
there.
Which I think is pretty cool. Um.
Yeah,
so that's the the GitHub copilot stuff.
There's a lot more.
I've done some things with.
And I suppose I would call this vibe
coding where I've.
I was given or I was given a Jason file
with.
Some configuration in it and I I I could
read the Jason file,
but I didn't quite know how to provision
something into Azure using those Jason
Jason files and so I was able to get.
GitHub Copilot to write a script,
a PowerShell script that would then.
Convert those Jason files into the
correct formats for an ARM template or a
bicep template that I could then deploy
using PowerShell and it did it all using.
PowerShell. So it wrote.
It converted the the JSON,
converted them to ARM templates or bicep
templates and then I was able to deploy
similarly with Entra.
And I might be able to show you that I've
got things that I wanted to deploy into
Entra.
Security groups,
but they needed to be role based security
groups.
Now when you're creating security groups
in Entra,
if you want them to be role assignable
groups, sorry,
not role based role assignable groups in
Entra, you can only do that.
When you're provisioning the group,
creating the group,
you can't change that flag once a group
exists. So I was, I was, you know,
kind of struggling through creating a
group. Oh, I realized it's not a.
Role assignable group.
I need to go and set the flag. Oh,
you can't set that because it's already
provisioned. You have to delete the group.
So deleted the group and then had GitHub
Copilot write a script for me to identify
if the group existed.
Or not. And if it did, did I want?
If it didn't,
did I want it to be role assignable or
not? Yes or no?
And basically it ran a a nice little.
Interface that asked me questions and
created these role assignable groups
based off of some config files. Nicolas.
Giving you your 10 minute warning.
OK, well, 10 minutes I am.
There's there's not a lot more than I can
show. I I I think we've got.
I want to try and show you the the role
assignable group script that I wrote,
but I'm going to have to shift to or
change to a different folder.
So let's open folder.
OK,
let me just stop sharing while I find it.
And while Matthew is looking for things,
I'd like to encourage us to have any
questions in mind and and and don't be
shy.
Mm.
Yeah, I'm already tired of talking.
Alrighty.
Alright.
Yeah, let me share my screen.
So what are you looking for?
Matthew,
I was just gonna ask in terms of getting
Yeah.
the extensions for Azure,
do you have to go and individually
Hmm.
install each and everyone of them or
there's a pack where you can just OK.
No, there's a pack. Yeah, yeah,
so absolutely.
So the Azure Tools pack is the the one
that I use and and and this is similar
Oh, OK.
for anything really.
There's even a PowerShell.
So.
Pack. So there's a GitHub pack.
There's there's all sorts. So yeah,
unless you've got individual extensions
that you know you want and you want to go
and get them.
Yeah.
You do that or install packs. So yeah,
I I I like packs and you can create your
own packs even.
So if you know of extensions for VS code
that you always need,
you can create your own packs.
I don't know if I can show you how to do
that now,
but because it's been a long time.
Yeah, I guess. Thanks for confirming that.
It's just,
I'm just trying to find a way obviously
to look at what's from a from a use case
perspective,
look at what I could actually use in my
day-to-day and what that looks like.
Mm.
Yeah,
so let me let me share my screen again
So, so.
and I'll show you back on the extensions.
Tab I suppose of VS code. Where is it now?
Azure Tools is 12 extensions in one pack.
Yeah, there you go. Makes sense.
OK, yeah, yeah. And.
How did I? Where? I'm trying to.
So I've also got other things like GitHub
repos. That's an extension. Git lens.
Git lens is nice because it shows you
what's been happening in a in a.
A repository other than what you've done.
So if other colleagues that you sync a
repository from have been working on it,
you'll see different branches and what's
been changed and things like that. Again,
I'm not a developer,
so this stuff is probably like developers
do this in their sleep.
They know branches.
And forks and knives and spoons.
And I it's all it's basically cutlery to
me.
So what was I gonna show? Oh,
I was gonna show my um.
Handy little intergrou script.
So um.
O This author you'll see is GitHub
Copilot. Lovely. Let's zoom in a bit.
So this entire script um.
Creates enter ID groups from Jason
configuration files.
So I've got where would they be now?
Somewhere in here. Got some Jason.
I think it's these no groups.
It'll be under groups,
these JSON files that define certain
groups. OK,
this is for conditional access and then.
In the in the JSON file we've specified
that it is a role assignable group is
assignable to role right?
So it knows that from the the file that
it must be a role assignable group but.
Running the script, initialize variables,
created groups, skipped groups,
error groups, et cetera, et cetera O.
Uh, let's see. I don't.
I don't know if I'm connected to anything,
but let's see if I can just run the
script without actually creating things.
Just to show you what it looks like.
I just want to check it MG context. Oops.
Yeah, OK, so I'm not connected to graph,
which I would need to be for this to work.
Scripts, CD scripts, scripts, scripts,
Nope.
Uh.
Oh, I'm in a completely different folder.
How about copy path?
OK,
and now what's the name of this
PowerShell script?
If I'd written this PowerShell script
myself,
I probably would have known exactly what
it was called,
but because I've used the power of OK,
you can see I've.
Run it before and.
That's the trouble with vibe coding is I
also vibe code things and then I go it
Yeah.
works so I won't actually go look at it.
Yeah, and and you kind of like, I'll,
I'll come back and use this again,
but then the next time you're like,
how did I do that again? So let's see,
Yeah.
create better things.
There's the source for the the.
I don't know if that's the right place,
but let's see what happens.
Yeah, not connected. OK,
I need to connect.
But the the whole point is the script has
got error handling in it.
It's got colours,
it it's beautiful and it it asks me,
it's got parameters settings.
So you know commandlet binding I.
Have it asks me if I want to overwrite or
what was it here update existing.
So if they exist I can just update the
existing ones but not for role assignable
groups you have to delete and recreate.
So it will do that for me if I've said
update existing which is.
A little bit dangerous, but.
Now there's what is this script?
381 lines of code that I didn't write a
single line of.
I I prompted and my prompt was probably
about 200 lines,
It's pretty cool.
Oh.
but I I got what I wanted just from using.
Using the GitHub copilot,
I wonder if my prompts are still there
now.
One month ago.
Oh, no. OK,
there is a way you can get back to the
the prompts.
But anyway that's that was some of the
cool stuff that I wanted to show and and
I think Nicolas,
I'm I'm at the 5 minute 2 mark so for
questions and.
Chat.
I think from a rewinding point of view,
the installing extensions,
that's a great place to start because we
don't often know where to start.
Hmm.
Yeah.
And if you the easiest thing in the world
is to create a new file and tell GitHub.
What it is and then paste something into
it and then you can create context like
that.
Also on the left hand side I think if
you're an infrastructure person,
this thing about file open new folder,
that doesn't make sense.
So do you mind just explaining that
Mm mm.
quickly?
I'll open folder this bit, yeah.
Open folder from yeah yeah.
Yeah, So what? Within VS Code,
I'm in a workspace and a workspace can
contain folders.
I suppose from a developer perspective,
it's a project that you're busy with.
Different languages, different instances,
I don't know,
but for me it's just the the workspace
that I'm busy in I'll.
Keep the folders together.
You can't have multiple folders,
so the folder that I'm.
You know,
if I go and open Maester for example,
it will now switch to a completely
different view. Look at that,
this stuff on the right hand side.
Brilliant.
But it's only that folder I don't have.
Additional folders so you can't have
multiple folders in a workspace.
But it's useful to be able to open an
entire folder with a number of files
within it.
So you you can absolutely just open a
file, a single file.
But it's useful to open an entire folder
like what I did just now with my interest
stuff. There's a folder I know I've got.
Jason files in that folder.
I've got the PowerShell script in the
folder and other things,
so I would open the folder.
Does that answer your question on the
folders thing?
Um.
The the extensions and Blessing you,
you know you raised a good question which
extensions to install for Azure and the
packs are really useful that you can.
Search for extensions,
but then I also see that the why is it
not showing? Oh, recommended is hidden.
VS code will recommend extensions as well,
so like.
Notepad keymap. I don't know what that is,
but maybe I want to take a look at it.
Get our ull requests Kubernetes.
I'm doing maybe some container stuff.
Maybe I want to get the Kubernetes
extension.
Although that's another scary asect for
me. Um.
But if you are working with containers,
you probably would want that. So yeah,
it's it.
VS Code is quite intuitive in kind of
showing you where to go and how to get.
A little bit more and every time I open
VS Code I learn something new. Oh,
what does that do? Oh look,
do you want to install the recommended
dev containers extension for Microsoft
from this repository? No,
I don't think so.
So yeah.
Yes.
So just to recap,
what I did was I showed you the
A lot. Go on.
extensions, I showed you accounts.
So don't forget if you want to use the
GitHub copilot,
you need to sign into GitHub.
So the little monarchy there,
click on that and sign in.
I've also got my Azure tenant signed in.
Oh, I didn't talk about backup and sync.
So if you have a GitHub account,
you can sync your settings for VS Code to
GitHub so that you can then go to another
machine and just install VS Code and sync
your settings and it'll sync.
Sync all the extensions, how it looks,
your rofiles,
all of that to your new machine so you
don't have to start from scratch.
You can using the Azure Resources
extension.
You can work with resources in Azure.
You've got profiles that you can set how
you want things to look.
I'll just switch to the doc writer
profile just to show you how it changes
colors and things.
It's a little bit easier on my eyes,
but it's not great for presenting.
Um.
Yeah,
and then some of the GitHub niceness that
I played with using the different the
agent mode and the different models that
you can use.
Configure models and you custom chat. No,
I don't want to do that.
We're coming up to the the top of the
hour,
See.
so sadly I do need to interrupt you
because we're coming to the end of lunch
No, I'm.
and learn.
And do you want to drop your contact
details in in any way if people want to
find you either LinkedIn profile,
Mhm.
a Twitter, an e-mail,
anything that works for you, Matthew?
Yeah,
so I'm just putting my Twitter in the
chat.
My I think my LinkedIn profile was on the
slide. I don't know what it is,
but it's Matt chat. Yeah. And then yeah,
It was, yeah.
just reach me on probably Twitter.
LinkedIn is probably the easiest way to
get a hold of me.
Um, I do follow both socials.
And thanks very much for having me for
lunch and learn. It was fun to learn.
Matthew, thank you.
Thank you so much for making the time
available. Thank you everyone who joined.
I have recorded the session and I will be
sharing it via a GitHub repo so anyone
can grab that and get.
The slides as well as everything that was
presented today. So with that,
thank you everybody who stayed.
We appreciate your time and if we are
going to see you tomorrow for the data
session, then we'll see you then.
Thank you so much.
Mm-hmm. Thanks. Thanks all.
Thank you, Matthew.
So that's all right. Cheers.
Thank you.
Bye, bye.